
	The nano editor (Nano's ANOther editor) by Chris Allegretta
                                      
Manifesto

     Nano is the editor formerly known as TIP (TIP Isn't Pico).
     The nano project was started because of three main problems with the
     wonderfully easy-to-use and friendly Pico text editor:
     
     - It's license is not the GNU GPL, and hence some Linux
     distributions, including Debian (my favorite) don't always
     include it/don't include binaries.  This is not necessarily a
     problem, but an issue nonetheless.
     
     - It has no ability to go to a line # from within the editor. There
     is the +number command line option, but who wants to exit a file to
     go to a specific line number? When I want to go to a line, since I
     have to exit anyway, I just call up vi temporarily.
     
     - No search and replace feature. Well, apparently there is a flag
     that lets you do a search and replace (-b in newer versions) but,
     well, I still dont like it.
     
     nano aims to solve these problems by emulating the functionality of
     Pico as closely as possible while adressing the problems above and
     perhaps providing other extra functionality.
     
How to compile and install nano

     Download the nano source code, then:
     tar zxvf nano-x.y.z.tar.gz
     cd nano-x.y.z
     ./configure
     make
     make install
     
     It's that simple. Use --prefix to override the default installation
     directory of /usr/local.
     
Web Page

     http://faculty.plattsburgh.edu/astyanax/nano
     
Current Status

     The current version of nano is below 1.0, meaning it is not a completely
     functional editor. I am currently looking for patches for all things
     listed in the TODO file. If you have a comment or suggestion for nano,
     please let me know, all help is appreciated.

     Warning:  This program can and possibly will corrupt your data in
     its current form!  It is beta software, so treat it as such!  If
     you are editing a file and suddenly nano crashes and you
     suddenly lose all your changes, or possibly the whole file is
     deleted I don't want to hear about it!  Thank you.
     
     Note that the primary aim of nano is to emulate Pico while adding a
     few key "missing" features. I do NOT want just a GPL'ed Pico clone,
     nor do I want something that strays too far from the Pico design
     (simple and straightforward). If you don't like this, feel free to
     fork my code at any time, but please call your editor something
     else, believe it or not I struggled awhile before coming up with
     the name nano (and before that TIP), and it would be much easier for
     everyone if there weren't five versions of the same program. As you
     can guess, I'm not much of an emacs fan ;)
     
   Chris Allegretta,  allegrcr@plattsburgh.edu
